xk6-disruptor: add a first-steps monopage (#1414)
grafana/k6-docs: docs/sources/v0.47.x/testing-guides/injecting-faults-with-xk6-disruptor/first-steps.md

title: 'xk6-disruptor first steps'
excerpt: 'xk6-disruptor is a k6 extension providing fault injection capabilities to k6.'
weight: 01
aliases:
  - /docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/xk6-disruptor/get-started/ 
---

# First steps

This document will guide you through running your first fault injection test using xk6-disruptor, while providing pointers to the more detailed documentation sections along the way. We will cover the following sections:

1. [Checking requirements](#checking-requirements)
1. [Installing xk6-disruptor](#installing-xk6-disruptor)
1. [Creating a simple k6 test](#creating-a-simple-k6-test)
1. [Add fault injeciton capabilities](#add-fault-injection-capabilities)

# Checking requirements

> xk6-disruptor focuses on injecting faults on applications running in Kubernetes. If you already have your application deployed to a development Kubernetes cluster, you are all set! If you don't, we will guide you through deploying a demo application on a local `minikube` cluster.

Author: I was thinking the opposite, actually: I added the example so people can still follow if they don't have their application deployed and accessible right when they are reading the article, but my original intention was for the guide to be the point of reference for developers/sres who do have an application and want to start using the disruptor. I think this was the feedback we got and originated this page: "I have an application but the multi-paged structure is hard to follow end to end to get me from zero to something"

> xk6-disruptor focuses on injecting faults on applications running in Kubernetes. If you already have your application deployed to a development Kubernetes cluster, you are all set! If you don't, we will guide you through deploying a demo application on a local `minikube` cluster.

Reviewer: > I added the example so people can still follow if they don't have their application deployed and accessible right when they are reading the article
> think this was the feedback we got and originated this page: "I have an application but the multi-paged structure is hard to follow end to end to get me from zero to something"

That is still the goal and I understand the intention,  but my own experience reading the content was the opposite.
It was unclear what the general steps are and what is specific to the demo. And the example makes a very long chunk of text and code in the middle of the guide!

The main problem, I see is that any example with the disruptor API would be application specific.

I still think it would be better to put all the steps together and then demo them in an example. In this way, if someone already has an application the demo won't be in the middle.

In order to follow this guide, you will need

- A microservice-based application that communicates over HTTP or GRPC.
- The ability to reach at least one service exposed by the application from the machine where you will run the tests.
- Privileged access to the Kubernetes cluster where your application is running from the machine where you will run the tests.

> ## Use our demo application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy the demo application
```

> ## Use our demo application

Reviewer: I think this section should go in its own high-level section, before the "creating a simple test" section.

![A very similar diagram as above, with the three components connected by right-facing arrows. This time, the xk6-disruptor logo is located between the Recommendations and the Catalog services, instead of between the user and the Recommendations service](https://grafana.com/media/docs/k6-oss/xk6-disruptor-get-started-real.png)

We can use a [`ServiceDisruptor`](/docs/k6/<K6_VERSION>/javascript-api/xk6-disruptor/servicedisruptor/) to inject faults into the Catalog service that recommendations uses:

```javascript
export function disrupt() {
    const disruptor = new ServiceDisruptor("quickpizza-catalog", "default");
    disruptor.injectHTTPFaults({errorRate: 0.1, errorCode: 503}, "10s");
}
```

The function above will create a disruption in the Kubernetes service called `quickpizza-catalog` in the `default` namespace, causing 10% of the requests to return [503 Service Unavailable](https://http.cat/503).

We can now integrate this disruption into the simple test we wrote earlier:

```javascript
import http from "k6/http";
import { check, sleep } from "k6";
import {ServiceDisruptor} from "k6/x/disruptor";

> const BASE_URL = 'http://localhost:3333'; // <- Your reachable endpoint goes here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const BASE_URL = 'http://localhost:3333'; //  this is endpoint where the recommendations service is exposed
```
